so this garden is in fact the middle of
a high-intensity Taiwanese manufacturer
huh that's true the train station is
visible in the background they're
somewhat distant but yeah they really
make an effort government industry work
together here to make this a lot more
beautiful than it could be I'm here with
my girlfriend who has not yet seen
episode 5 of season 8 but I wrote to her
to tell her we'll watch it together
tonight it is actually a good episode I
think by any reasonable standard this is
the first good episode in three years I
was thinking myself is growing what if
one day in the future my daughter wants
to watch Game of Thrones my daughter is
now six years old with many years of
idioms is out I want you to you know I'd
say here's my advice kid watch seasons
one through four and then skip ahead to
see today episode 5 the other even
within this season the other episodes of
this season have been so awful I would
say so not remembering exactly when this
happened the chronology I would say you
watch up to the point where Aria departs
Westeros where she departs to go to
train with the the faceless men and then
at that point you cut it off and you
jumped to the finale episode 5
everything else that's happened in
between is so awful I did look around to
get the sense of what the what the
reactions from from veteran critics of
Game of Thrones have been after this
and I understand a lot of people are
upset with the episode really for
reasons that are external the episode
it's it's the bad writing that's led up
to it that remains a problem so I just
ask this Tyrion Lannister even half a
character history Lannister like have
motivations or objectives Orkut no and
he is like the most writing devoted to
live like it's early in the show the
most lines of dialogue the most time
with his facial expressions on screen
hit a major character so it's not really
like the bad writing within this episode
it's the consequence of years of bad
writing leading up to this that sure
there's stuff to complete over there uh
there mister garyun first story arc her
character like you get that if you look
at this episode nice inhalation if you
did what it suggests you skipped a
couple years you'd be like whoa I missed
something
whoa yeah it's because there's been a
lot of bad writing leading up to this
episode if you just look at this episode
in isolation it's like a movie unto
itself
her character makes sense with it but no
you're not with one good episode you're
not gonna turn around the legacy of
years and years and years of bad writing
it's interesting I don't particularly
give credit to to Dan and Dave the
showrunners but the team of people who
are working with them here they
certainly are very very competent
they're certainly very adept at some
presenting a sense of the aimlessness of
war I remember I read various things
that been about obviously not all war
has this this sense but I remember
reading the autobiography of a guy who
fought in the Cambodian Civil War with a
lot of you know down on the ground
details the day-to-day reality that we
read people's accounts of what was like
fighting in Laos
there was one account I read by up by a
white American who fought in World War
two in Europe fought in the American
side and just you know I remember he
said like you know describe walking
around these devastated city escapes
marooned and empty city escapes he said
we were like a bunch of teenagers
running around throwing rocks at each
other like you don't like like some game
he played as a kid in New York City or
something except you know the rocks were
bullets
you get a story about you know where
there was a group of other Germans
patrolling they wouldn't attack each
other unless they were directly under
orders to do so it was late in the war
when the German you can guess German
started really lost the German cities
were devastated so in general the
Germans actually wouldn't open fire on
them they wouldn't open fire on the
Germans unless their own emergency so
because everyone knew look sooner or
later there's gonna be a peace treaty
signed it's gonna be an armistice this
war is done and there's no point kill a
bunch of strangers you ain't got nothing
against nothing she's another
interesting element of war the the
strange camaraderie between enemies that
that sometimes arises especially after
it years and years that's not a thing
we've seen chance triplets anyway in
this this kiddies without him patrol he
says you see that that German there says
I'm gonna hit him with a bullet right
between the arms and it is a count the
guy riding the super said that the
rifles they had were of such abysmal
Easwar quality that was like a given
their distance so that was a one in a
hundred shot it was so unlikely to Scott
would get the devil to the eyes that he
didn't even try to stop him this guy
raised his rifle it takes one shot and
hits this German kid Crypton s but then
what made this description so so
evocative and memorable was that
everyone responded with with confusion
and look what whoa what do you do know
it's a battlefield oh it's the middle of
war what are you doing shooting this kid
why did you just kill someone who didn't
have to die you know so I mentioned this
you guys have already seen this episode
all of this has that very strange
quality again it's really the last
couple of years the Vietnam War over
like that where people involved in the
war we're like well this war you know
this war in a sense nobody's gonna win
we all know
it's gonna be an armistice no that's
gonna end this is certainly is going to
end with an American victory on earth
could give it all must have it for the
past several years in Afghanistan assume
for the past several years in Iraq that
strange sense of enemy when a war that
started with a seer clear sense of
purpose a clear idea of victory I mean
again I know World War two is a really
extreme example but even in World War
two after a certain point there was this
sense of over what a week more each each
other before again and look you know the
politicians are gonna sort this out this
doesn't mean anything nobody so some of
those themes some of that sense and
again even though it's remembered is one
of the worst episodes Game of Thrones
if you compare this to the battle
between Jon Snow and house Bolton the
Battle of the bastards couple seasons
ago where that was I I would I remember
that is one of the worst episode of the
show but nevertheless the lower level
people managed to make that a very
evocative artistic statement about the
aimlessness of war so here also this has
a lot of quality aesthetically in terms
of giving voice to that sense of the
aimlessness to misrepresent so guys TV
shows a disaster it's been terrible for
three or four years or more however
we've been counting the writings been
terrible for a long long time this is
one episode that really does work as a
film as a work of sinful isolation it's
true you kind of have to forget there's
there's some weird plot holes here what
happened to bran didn't it seem like
bran was gonna be a major character just
what episode go you have to forget all
that you have to watch you in a vacuum
you have to watch it with no context
though that had been said sure credit
where credit's due
when they had awful episodes and
terrible rating I came here and said it
honestly and when the writing was decent
I got I got to give it to them they made
these men here is the beautiful
contradiction of modern Taiwan
enormous factory in here it enormous
factor the site and look at that look at
the mangoes hanging off that tree just
beautiful this whole street in its way
really really beautiful palm trees of
the Setting Sun
and what can I tell you that's that we
live Chinese tradition and the brutality
of economic for the Rd come on and so on
Danton
[Music]